About FieldLog

Website: http://dev.unclassified.de/source/fieldlog

FieldLog is a fast and comprehensive logging tool for .NET applications. It allows applications to write events, data and errors to managed and efficient log files. The logging methods are optimised for high performance multi-threaded operation and a single log method call takes as little as 3 microseconds on modern hardware. There's no comparison to OutputDebugString, Debug.WriteLine or appending to a file each time! This logging can be used in high-performance loops without noticeably slowing down the application.

The general idea is to always leave debug logging enabled to be able to analyse it in case of an application failure. Traditional log systems can only append to log files but never delete old data. This leads to constantly increasing log size with the debug level enabled. FieldLog can manage its log files and only keep items of each priority for a specific time, then delete it to save space and remove unnecessary data. The low latency and good storage efficiency allow you to keep logging enabled. When an error occurs, all the relevant information is already here to be analysed. You don't need to instruct your users to enable logging by tinkering with hidden XML files and wait for the error to happen again. Instead, the user is guided through collecting the relevant logs and submitting them directly to the developer.

The log items are written in a binary format that minimises the amount of bytes per information and reuses any previous text strings for storage efficiency. If the same message string is logged over and over again, it will hardly increase the log size. The files are separated by log priority and a new file is started after a certain file size or time. If available, NTFS compression is used and considered in file size decisions. Old log items are automatically deleted. The maximum log size and keep time is configurable by an easy to understand and robust text file in the application directory.

The log viewer, FieldLogViewer, loads a set of log files and displays the log items in a list. The user can select any item to view all the details like thread ID, additional exception data, stack traces or system environment data at that time. Items are colour-coded by their priority and icons display the type of event. A powerful filter editor allows you to quickly find the interesting events. The viewer can even keep reading at the end of the log files and show new log items as they are written by the running application. This allows a developer to monitor the application in real-time. The selected filter remains in effect. You can also use FieldLogViewer as a DebugOutputString listener and read limited debug output from other processes as well.

An easy to use log sumit tool (not yet implemented) will guide the user through the process of selecting the relevant log files, packaging them for transport and choosing a suitable transport method. Sending an e-mail, using an HTTP or FTP server, sending with Bluetooth, and copying the package to a local directory are the planned transport methods. This tool can be started in response to an unhandled or unrecoverable application error so that the user is prompted with the right information and can submit trace logs while they're fresh.

Licence

This software is released under the terms of the GNU GPL licence, version 3. You can find the detailed terms and conditions in the download or on the GNU website <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.